## What is Data Science?

- The Science *of* Data?
  - machine learning & statistics research
- Doing Science *with* Data?
  - data-intensive research
- Applying Science *to* Data?
  - data-intensive X


### What is Data?

*Data* can broadly be described as factual information about events, situations, circumstances etc. in the world around us. 

Data is often hailed as the "new oil" or the "new electricity", to highlight its transformative potential as a driver of prosperity in the twenty-first century.


### Data $\neq$ Oil

However, the absence of a fixed physical form as well as its often transient nature imply that 
*the potential for and challenges of collecting, processing, and exploiting data are incomparable with physical resources*.


### What is Knowledge?

While data is a vehicle for describing the world around us, *knowledge is the carrier of understanding*: 
- (K in) Domain knowledge is indispensable for understanding the meaning of data and for processing and exploiting it in a productive way. 
- (K out) Further knowledge is produced by applying analytics to data.


### Data + Knowledge = Value

Data science is a family of *disciplines operating at the junction of data and knowledge*, building on rich data and domain knowledge to produce **value** in a variety of forms. 

These disciplines range from methodological subjects (statistics, machine learning, data mining) to data-driven applications in other domains (psychology, social science, economics, history, among many others).


### The Value of Data Science

- scientific knowledge and models
- societal value
- economic value
- personal value
- ...